# PART XI: APPEALS AND HEARINGS BEFORE COURT OF 3 JUDGES
&nsbp;

81\. Application of this Part

82\. Requests for further arguments before the Judge or Registrar

83\. Civil appeals before the High Court from the State Courts

• Appeals under Order 55D of the Rules of Court

• Appeals from the Family Court

• Appeals from the Employment Claims Tribunal

84\. Civil appeals before the High Court from tribunal or person under
Order 55 of the Rules of Court

85\. Whether an appeal to the Court of Appeal is to be heard by a 2 or 3
Judge Court of Appeal

85A. Whether an appeal to the Court of Appeal is to be heard by 5 or any
greater uneven number of Judges

85B. Leave of the Court of Appeal to receive further affidavits in
relation to an application to strike out a notice of appeal

86\. Quantum of security to be provided under Order 57, Rule 3(3) of the
Rules of Court

86A. Appeals Information Sheet for civil appeals to the Court of Appeal

87\. Filing of records of appeal, core bundles and written Cases for
civil appeals under Order 57, Rules 9 and 9A of the Rules of Court

87A. Request for leave to exceed page limit for Appellant's Case and
Respondent's Case for civil appeals to the Court of Appeal

87B.
<span style="font-size: 10.0pt; line-height: 115%; font-family: Verdana, sans-serif; mso-fareast-font-family: SimSun; mso-fareast-theme-font: minor-fareast; mso-bidi-font-family: &#39;Times New Roman&#39;; mso-ansi-language: EN-GB; mso-fareast-language: ZH-CN; mso-bidi-language: AR-SA;">Requests
for waiver or deferment of appeal court fees</span>

88\. Hard copies and soft copies for hearing of civil appeals before the
Court of Appeal under Order 57 of the Rules of Court

89\. Preparation of appeal records in civil appeals to the Court of
Appeal

• Arrangement

• Pagination in soft copy

• Table of contents

• Spacing

• Core bundles – Order 57, Rule 9(2A)

• Responsibility for good order and completeness of appeal records

• Superfluous and irrelevant documents

89A. Bundle of documents filed with leave of the Court of Appeal

90\. Skeletal arguments for appeals before the High Court, Court of
Appeal and Court of 3 Judges

• Skeletal arguments for civil matters before the Court of Appeal

• Timelines for submission of skeletal arguments for appeal before the
High Court

• Application of this paragraph to Court of 3 Judges

91\. Use of presentation slides for all proceedings before the High
Court, Court of Appeal and Court of 3 Judges

• Typeface

• Colours

• Animation and sounds

• Corporate logos

92\. Further arguments before the Court of Appeal

## 81\. Application of this Part

(1) The directions in this Part shall, subject to sub-paragraph (2)
below, <span style="font-style: italic;">*mutatis mutandis*</span>,
apply to appeals before the High Court, hearings before the Court of
Appeal and disciplinary proceedings (or appeals therefrom) brought under
any statute, including the Legal Profession Act and the Medical
Registration Act which are heard by a Court of 3 Judges.

(2) Where disciplinary proceedings (or appeals therefrom) brought under
any statute, including the Legal Profession Act and the Medical
Registration Act, are heard by a Court of 3 Judges, 1 hard copy each of
the parties’ written submissions, the record of proceedings, the
originating summons and all affidavits filed in the originating summons
shall be tendered.

## 82. Requests for further arguments before the Judge or Registrar

(1) All requests for further arguments shall be made by way of Request
filed through the Electronic Filing Service and should, either in the
Request electronic form or a document attached thereto:

(a) state the party making the request;

(b) identify the Judge or Registrar who heard the matter in question;

(c) specify when the order concerned was made;

(d) state the provision of law under which the request is made;

(e) set out the proposed further arguments briefly, together with any
authorities; and

(f) include a copy of each of the authorities cited.

(2) A copy of the request should be furnished to all parties concerned.

(3) All requests should be addressed to the Registrar.

## 83. Civil appeals before the High Court from the State Courts

Appeals under Order 55D of the Rules of Court

(1) In appeals under Order 55D of the Rules of Court, the appellant and
the respondent are to tender one hard copy of the record of appeal and
the Cases, as well as any bundle of authorities to be relied upon to the
Legal Registry of the Supreme Court not less than 5 working days before
the hearing of the appeal, to assist the Judge of the High Court.  

Appeals from the Family Court

(2) Directions for appeals from the Family Court on ancillary matters in
divorce proceedings, custody matters or proceedings pursuant to s 17A(2)
of the Supreme Court of Judicature Act are set out at paragraph 142.

Appeals from the Employment Claims Tribunal

(3) In addition to any provisions in the Rules of Court or other written
law, and subject to any further directions made by the Court, the
Registrar hereby directs that appeals to the High Court from the
Employment Claims Tribunal shall be heard in open Court.

## 84. Civil appeals before the High Court from tribunal or person under Order 55 of the Rules of Court

(1) Order 55, Rule 6(4) of the Rules of Court states that it is the
appellant's duty to apply to the Judge or other person presiding at the
proceedings in which the decision appealed against was given, for the
signed copy of any note made by him of the proceedings and to furnish
that copy for the use of the Court. For the avoidance of doubt, the onus
is on the appellant to file a record of proceedings, comprising the
signed copy of the notes of proceedings, and any further grounds of
decision, in the High Court.

(2) The appellant and the respondent are to tender one hard copy of the
notes of proceedings, grounds of decision and any skeletal arguments or
bundles of authorities to be relied upon to the Legal Registry of the
Supreme Court not less than 5 working days before the hearing of the
appeal, to assist the Judge of the High Court.

(3) No affidavits shall be filed in respect of the appeal without the
leave of court.

## 85\. Whether an appeal to the Court of Appeal is to be heard by a 2 or 3 Judge Court of Appeal

(1) The time for an appellant to file the record of appeal, the Case and
the core bundle of documents for hearing before a Court of Appeal is 2
months from the service of the notice referred to in Order 57, Rule 5(2)
of the Rules of Court where the appeal is to be heard by a 3 judge
Court, and one month where the appeal is to be heard by a 2 judge Court.

(2) To resolve any confusion or uncertainty as to whether an appeal is
to be heard by a 2 or 3 Judge Court of Appeal, this issue will be
determined by the Judge who heard the matter at first instance.

(3) The Judge at first instance will inform the Legal Registry of the
Supreme Court of his decision on the above matter, and the Legal
Registry will inform the appellant in the notice prescribed under Order
57, Rule 5(2) of the time for filing of the record of appeal, the
Appellant’s Case and the core bundle of documents, in accordance with
whether the matter will be heard by a 2 or 3 Judge Court of Appeal.

(4) If the Judge at first instance does not determine the issue of
whether the appeal should be heard before a 2 or 3 Judge Court of
Appeal, or if the appellant should dispute the determination of the
Judge of first instance, the matter will be referred to a Judge of
Appeal whose determination is final. An appellant who wishes to dispute
the determination of the Judge of first instance must, within 7 days of
the service of the notice prescribed under Order 57, Rule 5(2) inform
the Legal Registry by filing a Request

## 85A. Whether an appeal to the Court of Appeal is to be heard by 5 or any greater uneven number of Judges

Pursuant to section 30(1) of the Supreme Court of Judicature Act (Cap.
322) and notwithstanding any determination that may be made under
paragraph 85(2) or (4) of these Practice Directions, the Court of Appeal
may determine, as and when appropriate, whether to convene a panel of 5
or any greater uneven number of Judges. Such determination of the Court
of Appeal will be final.

## 85B. Leave of the Court of Appeal to receive further affidavits in relation to an application to strike out a notice of appeal

(1) Under Order 57, Rule 16, a respondent may make an application to
strike out a notice of appeal within the time frame provided in the
Rule. The leave of the Court of Appeal to receive any further affidavit
pursuant to Order 57, Rule 16(13), may be sought by way of
correspondence to the Court of Appeal, or an appointment before a Judge
of Appeal in a case management conference.

## 86. Quantum of security to be provided under Order 57, Rule 3(3) of the Rules of Court

(1) Order 57, Rule 3(3) of the Rules of Court provides:

(3) The appellant must at the time of filing the notice of appeal
provide security for the respondent’s costs of the appeal in the sum of
$10,000 or such other sum as may be fixed from time to time by the Chief
Justice by —

(a) depositing the sum in the Registry or with the Accountant-General
and obtaining a certificate in Form 115; or

(b) procuring an undertaking in Form 116 from his solicitor and filing a
certificate in Form 117.

(2) The Honourable the Chief Justice has, in exercise of the powers
conferred on him by Order 57, Rule 3(3), fixed the sum to be provided by
the appellant by way of security for the respondent's costs of an appeal
to the Court of Appeal at $15,000 for appeals against interlocutory
orders and $20,000 for all other appeals.

## 86A. Appeals Information Sheet for civil appeals to the Court of Appeal

(1) The Chief Justice has directed that for civil appeals to the Court
of Appeal, parties shall file in court and serve on every other party to
the appeal or his solicitor an Appeals Information Sheet in Form 27 of
Appendix A to these Practice Directions at the same time as their
respective Cases under Order 57, Rules 9 and 9A of the Rules of Court
are filed and served.

(2) Where appropriate, parties or their solicitors may be required to
attend in person to take directions on the conduct of the appeal.

## 87. Filing of records of appeal, core bundles and written Cases for civil appeals under Order 57, Rules 9 and 9A of the Rules of Court

(1) Under Order 57, Rule 9(1) of the Rules of Court, the appellant is
required to file the record of appeal, the Appellant’s Case and the core
bundle. Under Order 57, Rule 9A(2), the respondent has to file the
Respondent’s Case and the supplemental core bundle (if any). Under Order
57, Rule 9A(5A), the appellant may file an Appellant’s Reply. The record
of appeal, core bundle and supplemental core bundle are collectively
referred to in this paragraph as “appeal bundles”.

(2) For the purpose of complying with Order 57, Rules 9 and 9A, the
parties are required to file the following documents using the
Electronic Filing Service in accordance with the specified time frames
in Order 57, Rules 9(1), 9A(2) and 9A(5A).

(a) The appellant is required to file one copy of the following:

(i) Form of the record of appeal in lieu of the record of appeal;

(ii) Form of the core bundle in lieu of the core bundle; and

(iii) Appellant’s Case<span style="text-align: justify;">.</span>

(b) The respondent is required to file one copy of the following:

(i) Respondent’s Case; and

(ii) Form of the Respondent's supplemental core bundle (if any) in lieu
of the supplemental core bundle.

(c) Where applicable, the appellant may also file one copy of the
following:

(i) Appellant's Reply; and

(ii) Form of the Appellant's supplemental core bundle (if any) in lieu
of the supplemental core bundle.

(3) The form of the record of appeal, form of core bundle and form of
supplemental core bundle (collectively referred to in this paragraph as
“forms of appeal bundles”) filed pursuant to sub-paragraph (2) must be
in accordance with Forms 12, 13 and 14 of Appendix A of these Practice
Directions. For the avoidance of doubt, the documents contained in the
hard copies of the appeal bundles must coincide with the documents
listed in the form of the appeal bundles.

(4) The attention of parties is also drawn to the Court fees payable
under Order 90B read with Appendix B of the Rules of Court, and the
importance of brevity and restraint in the compilation of core bundles.

(4A) The Chief Justice has further directed that the Appellant’s Case
and the Respondent’s Case in civil matters before the Court of Appeal
shall not exceed 50 pages unless leave of the Court of Appeal is
obtained. The Appellant’s Reply, if any, shall not exceed 30 pages
unless leave of the Court of Appeal is obtained. The process for
obtaining leave of the Court of Appeal may be found in paragraph 87A of
these Practice Directions. Any Appellant’s Case, Respondent’s Case, and
Appellant’s Reply in breach of this requirement will be rejected. The
cover page and backing page shall be excluded from any computation of
the number of pages. Parties are reminded to comply with Order 57, Rule
9A of the Rules of Court in respect of the preparation of their Cases,
and the Appellant’s Reply, as well as the following requirements:

(a) all pages should be paginated, with the page numbers corresponding
to the Portable Document Format version of the Case or the Appellant’s
Reply, as the case may be;

(b) the minimum font size to be used is Times New Roman 12 or its
equivalent;

(c) the print of every page shall be double-spaced; and

(d) every page shall have a margin on all 4 sides, each of at least 35
mm in width.

(5) If a party wishes to rely on a document which does not exist in the
electronic case file, he must file the document
<span style="font-style: italic;">*together*</span> with the respective
forms of appeal bundles. Further, a table of contents must be included
for these documents. These documents must be paginated consecutively at
the centre top of the page and the solicitor must ensure that the
pagination takes into account the pages comprising the respective forms
of appeal bundles and the table of contents for these additional
documents. For example, if the form of the core bundle is 5 pages and
the table of contents for the additional documents is 2 pages, the first
page of the first document should be paginated as page 8.

(6) When the core bundles and supplemental core bundles are tendered at
the Legal Registry of the Supreme Court pursuant to paragraph 88(1), the
Legal Registry staff will state on the top right hand corner of the
bundle the exact amount of Court fees payable under Order 90B. The
parties should then pay the Court fees as indicated.

## 87A. Request for leave to exceed page limit for Appellant’s Case, Respondent’s Case and Appellant's Reply for civil appeals to the Court of Appeal

(1) Parties shall apply for leave of the Court of Appeal to exceed the
page limit for the Appellant’s Case, the Respondent’s Case or the
Appellant's Reply by filing a Request in the Electronic Filing Service
stating the reasons for requiring additional pages and the number of
additional pages required.

(2) The application for leave to exceed the page limit for the
Appellant’s Case or the Respondent’s Case shall be filed at least 14
days before the date the Appellant’s Case or the Respondent’s Case, as
the case may be, is due to be filed. The application for leave to exceed
the page limit for the Appellant’s Reply shall be filed at least 7 days
before the date the Appellant’s Reply is due to be filed. Applications
filed out of time will be rejected.

## 87B. Request for waiver or deferment of court fees

<span style="font-size: 10.0pt; line-height: 115%; font-family: Verdana, sans-serif; mso-fareast-font-family: Calibri; mso-bidi-font-family: &#39;Times New Roman&#39;; mso-ansi-language: EN-GB; mso-fareast-language: ZH-CN; mso-bidi-language: AR-SA;">A
request for the waiver or deferment of the whole or any part of any
appeal court fees under Order 91, Rule 5 of the Rules of Court must be
supported by an affidavit in Form 14A of Appendix A of these Practice
Directions. The affidavit in Form 14A must verify Form 14B of Appendix A
of these Practice Directions.</span>

## 88. Hard copies and soft copies for hearing of civil appeals before the Court of Appeal under Order 57 of the Rules of Court

(1) In order to assist the Judges of the Court of Appeal, the appellant
and the respondent are required to tender hard copies of the Appellant’s
and Respondent’s Cases, the Appellant’s Reply (if any), core bundles of
documents and supplemental core bundles of documents (if any) to the
Legal Registry of the Supreme Court at the same time when filing them
within the prescribed time under Order 57, Rule 9A of the Rules of
Court. The following directions must be complied with:

(a) Where the appeal is to be heard by a 3-judge Court, 4 hard copies of
the Cases and the Appellant’s Reply (if any), the core bundles and
supplemental core bundles of documents (if any) shall be tendered.

(b) Where the appeal is to be heard by a 2-judge Court, 3 hard copies of
the Cases and the Appellant’s Reply (if any), the core bundles and
supplemental core bundles of documents (if any) shall be tendered.

(2) The directions set out in paragraph 89 apply in relation to the
preparation of the appeal bundles in hard copy, which may be printed on
one side or both sides of each page.

(3) In addition to the hard copies, the appellant and respondent are
required to tender soft copies of the following documents in Portable
Document Format (PDF) at the same time in a CD-ROM:

(a) Appellant’s and Respondent’s Cases;

(b) the Appellant’s Reply;

(c) Core bundles of documents and supplemental core bundles of
documents;

(d) Record of appeal; and

(e) Bundles of authorities.

(4) The files in the CD-ROM should be named in accordance with the
following format:

\<party\> - \<document title\>

For example -

1st Appellant – Appellant’s Case

1st Appellant – Appellant’s Reply

1st Appellant – Bundle of Authorities Vol 1

1st Appellant – Bundle of Authorities Vol 2

1st Appellant – Record of Appeal Vol 1

1st Appellant – Record of Appeal Vol 2

(5) The CD-ROM shall be clearly labelled with the case number and title
of the proceedings. If there is more than one CD-ROM, the CD-ROMs shall
be numbered sequentially.

## 89. Preparation of appeal records in civil appeals to the Court of Appeal

Arrangement

(1) This sub-paragraph sets out the manner of arranging appeal records.

(a) To facilitate cross-referencing, appeal records shall be arranged in
the following separate volumes:

(i) <span style="font-weight: bold;">Volume I</span> – Judgment or
grounds of decision and the engrossed order of Court of judgment
appealed from.

(ii) <span style="font-weight: bold;">Volume II</span> – Notice of
appeal, certificate of security for costs and pleadings (to include all
originating processes).

(iii) <span style="font-weight: bold;">Volume III</span> – Affidavits
(in chronological order), and transcripts or notes of evidence and
arguments.

(iv) <span style="font-weight: bold;">Volume IV</span> – All such
exhibits and documents as they were tendered in the Court below, but
which did not form an exhibit to any affidavit.

(v) <span style="font-weight: bold;">Volume V</span> – The Agreed Bundle
(if any) in its original physical form as it was tendered in the Court
below.

(b) Where there are no exhibits or documents referred to in
sub-paragraph (1)(a)(iv) above, Volume IV need not be produced, and
Volume V shall be renumbered as Volume IV.

(c) If any volume should exceed 300 pages, then that volume shall be
sub-divided, at a convenient page, into sub-volumes designated as part
thereof, for example, Volume III Part A, Volume III Part B and so on.
Conversely, if any of the volumes (with the exception of Volumes I and
II which shall remain as separate volumes) should be less than 100 pages
each, these may be amalgamated into combined volumes, each not exceeding
300 pages, and renumbered accordingly.

(d) The following additional directions shall apply to the form of the
record of appeal:

(i) The documents in Volumes I, II, and III shall be arranged strictly
in the order stated in sub-paragraph (1)(a) above.

(ii) The documentary exhibits in Volume IV shall be arranged in the most
convenient way for the use of the Court, as the circumstances of the
case require. The documents shall, as far as suitable, be arranged in
chronological order, mixing plaintiff’s and defendant’s documents
together when necessary (for example, in a series of correspondence). If
proceedings in a suit other than the one under appeal appear as
exhibits, then these shall be kept together. However, the documents from
each suit shall be arranged in the chronological order of the suits.

(iii) Each document in Volume IV shall show its exhibit mark and whether
it is the plaintiff’s or the defendant’s document, unless this is clear
from the mark.

Pagination in soft copy

(2) This sub-paragraph sets out the manner of paginating soft copy
appeal records.

(a) The first page of each volume shall state the title and the Civil
Appeal number of the appeal, the names of the parties, the volume
number, a short description of its contents, the names and addresses of
the appellants and respondents, and the date of filing.

(b) The page number of each volume of the appeal records must correspond
to the page number in the Portable Document Format (PDF) version of that
volume. Each separate volume of the appeal records shall start at page 1
and every page shall be numbered consecutively. If separator sheets are
used, these shall also be
numbered<span style="margin-left: 40px;">.</span>

Table of contents

(3) This sub-paragraph sets out the format of the table of contents for
appeal records.

(a) The table of contents of all volumes of the records shall be placed
at the beginning of Volume I, immediately after the first title page in
the manner and form set out in Form 15 of Appendix A of these Practice
Directions.

(b) Each volume and, if any, parts thereof, shall also contain its own
index of the contents.

(c) Items in the table of contents shall be numbered serially, and
listed in the order in which they are found in the records.

(d) The items relating to the transcripts or notes of the evidence of
witnesses shall have a sub-table of contents of the evidence of each
witness, and the number and name of each witness shall be shown in such
sub-table.

(e) If an exhibit consists of a bundle of documents, then the documents
in the bundle shall be listed in a sub-table of contents under the item
relating to such bundle.

(f) Electronic bookmarks for each item of the table of contents and
sub-table of contents must be added to each volume of the PDF version of
the appeal records. The description of each bookmark shall correspond
with the description of that item in the table of contents or sub-table
of contents, unless an abbreviated description is appropriate.

Spacing

(4) The line spacing on every page of the records of which the original
is typed-written (for example, notice of appeal) shall be double-spaced.

Core bundles – Order 57, Rule 9(2A)

(5) The documents to be included in the core bundle are stipulated in
Order 57, Rule 9(2A).  The contents of the core bundle shall be arranged
in the following separate volumes:

(a) <span style="font-weight: bold;">Volume I</span> – a copy of the
grounds of the judgment or order, the judgment or order appealed from
and an index of the documents included therein.

(b) <span style="font-weight: bold;">Volume II</span> – all other
documents referred to in Order 57, Rule 9(2A), and an index of the
documents included therein.

Each volume of the core bundle shall begin at page 1, every page shall
be numbered and the page number of the core bundle shall correspond to
the page number of the PDF version.

Responsibility for good order and completeness of appeal records

(6) The solicitor having the conduct of the appeal may delegate the
preparation of the appeal records to an assistant or a suitably
experienced law clerk or secretary, provided always that the solicitor
shall personally satisfy himself as to the good order and completeness
of every copy of the appeal records lodged in Court in accordance with
the above directions, and shall personally bear responsibility for any
errors or deficiencies.

Superfluous and irrelevant documents

(7) With regard to the inclusion of documents, the solicitor’s attention
is drawn to the provisions of Order 57, Rules 9(2), (2A) and (3). Only
documents which are relevant to the subject matter of the appeal, or, in
the case of core bundles, will be referred to in the Cases, shall be
included in the appeal records. The Court of Appeal will have no
hesitation in making a special order for costs in cases in which it is
of the opinion that costs have been wasted by the inclusion of
superfluous or irrelevant documents. Documents shall not appear more
than once in the records, even if exhibited to different affidavits.

## 89A. Bundle of documents filed with leave of the Court of Appeal

(1) Where leave is granted by the Court of Appeal for the filing of any
bundle of documents under Order 57, Rule 9A(23), the party shall file
the bundle of documents by tendering the requisite hard copies of the
bundle of documents to the Legal Registry of the Supreme Court in
accordance with paragraph 88(1) of these Practice Directions.

(2) In addition to hard copies, the party filing the bundle of documents
is required to tender soft copies of the bundle of documents in Portable
Document Format (PDF) at the same time in a CD-ROM in accordance with
paragraphs 88(4) and (5) of these Practice Directions.

(3) When the bundle of documents is tendered at the Legal Registry of
the Supreme Court pursuant to this paragraph, the Legal Registry staff
will state on the top right hand corner of the bundle the exact amount
of Court fees payable under Order 90B.  The parties should then pay the
Court fees as indicated.

(4) The directions set out in paragraph 89 of these Practice Directions
in relation to the preparation of the bundles shall, with the necessary
modifications, apply to the bundle of documents.

## 90. Skeletal arguments for appeals before the High Court, Court of Appeal and Court of 3 Judges

(1) For the avoidance of doubt, this paragraph applies to:

(a) civil and criminal appeals in the High Court, excluding appeals from
the Registrar to a Judge in Chambers;

(b) civil appeals and any other civil matters, including interlocutory
applications, before the Court of Appeal; and

(c) criminal appeals and other criminal matters before the Court of
Appeal.

(2) The term “skeletal arguments” includes “skeletal submissions”,
“written submissions”, “written arguments” and all other variant terms
by which such documents are known.

(3) Counsel should submit skeletal arguments for the hearing of the
appeal or matter and give a copy to counsel for the other parties. Hard
copies of skeletal arguments may be printed on one side or both sides of
each page.

(4) Skeletal arguments are abbreviated notes of the arguments that will
be presented. Skeletal arguments are not formal documents and do not
bind parties. They are a valuable tool to the Judges and are meant to
expedite the hearing of the appeal. These notes should comply with the
following requirements:

(a) they should contain a numbered list of the points proposed to be
argued, stated in no more than one or 2 sentences;

(b) each listed point should be accompanied by a full reference to the
material to which counsel will be  referring, i.e., the relevant pages
or passages in authorities, the record of appeal, the bundles of
documents, affidavits, transcripts and the judgment under appeal;

(c) all pages should be paginated, with the first page (not including
any cover page) numbered as “Page 1”;

(d) the minimum font size to be used is Times New Roman 12 or its
equivalent;

(e) the print of every page shall be double-spaced; and

(f) every page shall have a margin on all 4 sides, each of at least 35mm
in width.

Skeletal arguments for civil matters before the Court of Appeal

(5) The need for parties to avoid prolixity in their “skeletal
arguments” is emphasised. All skeletal arguments in civil matters
before the Court of Appeal shall not exceed 20 pages. Any skeletal
arguments in breach of this requirement will be rejected. The cover page
and backing page shall be excluded from any computation of the number of
pages.

(6) Where the appeal or matter is before the Court of Appeal, the
skeletal arguments must be filed by 4 p.m. on the Monday three weeks
before the week of the Court of Appeal sitting (e.g., the skeletal
arguments for the Court of Appeal sitting in the week of 8 April 2013
must be filed by 4 p.m. on 18 March 2013). The skeletal arguments should
be filed by tendering 4 hard copies to the Legal Registry of the Supreme
Court and filing one soft copy through the Electronic Filing Service.
Skeletal arguments filed in breach of this timeline will be rejected.
For the avoidance of doubt, this timeline applies regardless of the
actual day on which the particular appeal is scheduled for hearing
before the Court of Appeal.

(7) As with other non-compliance with timelines, costs may be imposed
against the party in default or his counsel personally in the event of
non-compliance with sub-paragraph (6) above.  Unless approval for late
filing has been granted, the party in default may not file or tender
these skeletal arguments in Court.

(8) Parties whose skeletal arguments have been rejected for filing may
re-file their skeletal arguments, provided they comply with
sub-paragraphs (4) to (7) above.

Further skeletal arguments for civil and criminal matters before the
Court of Appeal

(8A) Where the Court of Appeal orders further skeletal arguments
(including any submissions on costs) to be filed for any civil or
criminal matter, such skeletal arguments shall not exceed 10 pages
unless otherwise directed by the Court of Appeal. Any skeletal arguments
filed in breach of this requirement will be rejected. The cover page and
backing page shall be excluded from any computation of the number of
pages.

Timelines for submission of skeletal arguments for appeal before the
High Court

(9) Where the appeal is a civil appeal before the High Court, the
skeletal arguments should be sent to the Legal Registry at least 2
working days before the hearing of the appeal.

(10) Where the appeal is a criminal appeal before the High Court, the
skeletal arguments should be sent to the Legal Registry at least 10 days
before the hearing of the appeal. Skeletal arguments filed in breach of
this timeline will be stamped “Late Submission”.

Application of this paragraph to Court of 3 Judges

(11) Sub-paragraphs (1) to (8A) also apply to disciplinary proceedings,
or appeals therefrom, brought under any statute, including the Legal
Profession Act (Cap. 161) and the Medical Registration Act (Cap. 174)
which are heard by a Court of 3 Judges.

## 91\. Use of presentation slides for all proceedings before the High Court, Court of Appeal and Court of 3 Judges

Subject to approval by the Court, parties may utilise presentation
slides to assist in oral submissions before the Court. Presentation
slides may be projected in the courtroom or hearing chambers when oral
submissions are made. Presentation slides shall comply with the
following standards:

Typeface

(1) A clear typeface such as Arial or Times New Roman should be used;
care should be taken to ensure that the font used is of at least a size
equivalent to Arial font size 32. Bold and italicised fonts should be
used sparingly.

Colours

(2) There should be sufficient contrast between the slide background and
text: it is preferable to use black or dark fonts with a light
background. The colours used in slide backgrounds should be muted and
preferably monochromatic.

Animation and sounds

(3) Animation of slides or elements within a slide should be avoided;
similarly, sounds should not be incorporated in the presentation slides
unless they are necessary.

Corporate logos

(4) Corporate logos of the law practice may be displayed on the
presentation slides. Care should be taken to ensure that the size and
location of corporate logos do not distract from the substance of the
presentation slides.

## 92. Further arguments before the Court of Appeal

(1) From time to time, requests are received for further arguments to be
presented before the Court of Appeal after the conclusion of the hearing
of the appeal. Such requests should not be made as all relevant
arguments should have been presented at the hearing proper.

(2) The Honourable the Chief Justice has therefore directed that as a
general rule, unless asked for by the Court of Appeal itself, the Court
of Appeal will not receive further arguments after the conclusion of the
hearing of the appeal.

(3) The general rule will be relaxed in only very exceptional
circumstances, e.g., if an authority not available at the hearing would
be decisive. Counsel seeking to submit further arguments should
therefore satisfy themselves that very exceptional circumstances exist.
If they are of the view that such circumstances do exist, they must also
seek the consent of the other parties to their request.

(4) All requests for further arguments shall be made by filing a Request
through the Electronic Filing Service and should:

(a) state the party making the requests;

(b) identify the Judges constituting the Court of Appeal who heard the
matter in question;

(c) specify when the order concerned was made;

(d) state the very exceptional reasons which justify the request;

(e) state whether the other parties consent to the request;

(f) set out the proposed further arguments briefly, together with any
authorities; and

(g) include a copy of each of the authorities cited.

(5) Any request for further arguments must be received by the Registrar
within one week after the conclusion of the hearing of the appeal,
failing which it cannot be considered and will be rejected.

(6) A copy of the request should be furnished to all parties concerned.

(7) All requests should be addressed to the Registrar.
