# PART VIII: DOCUMENTS AND AUTHORITIES FOR USE IN COURT

69\. Filing of documents and authorities for use in Court

• Bundle of authorities

70\. Bundle of documents filed on setting down

• Directions for electronic creation and filing of bundles of documents

71\. Documents for use in trials of writ actions in open Court

• Only opening statement to be filed through the Electronic Filing
Service

• Timeline for filing documents

• Bundles of documents

• Bundles of authorities

• Opening statements

72\. Bundles of authorities for other open Court hearings

73\. Hearings in Chambers

73A. Written submissions and bundles of authorities for special date
hearings

74\. Citation of judgments

• Use of judgments as authorities in submissions

• Use of judgments from foreign jurisdictions

• Citation practice

• The neutral citation system for local judgments

• Ancillary provisions

# 69\. Filing of documents and authorities for use in Court

(1) <span id="Sub-para_1"></span>Subject to any directions in these
Practice Directions to the contrary, in particular paragraphs 71(3) and
104, all documents for use at any hearing in Court must be filed using
the Electronic Filing Service at least 1 clear day in advance of the
hearing. These documents include written submissions, skeletal
arguments, bundles of documents, bundles of pleadings, bundles of
affidavits, core bundles and all opening statements.

(2) <span id="Sub-para_2"></span>In the event that it is not possible to
file the documents in advance of the hearing, counsel may apply to the
Judge or Registrar conducting the hearing for leave to use paper
documents during the hearing. The paper documents may be printed on one
side or both sides of each page. The solicitor must explain why it was
not possible to file the documents in advance of the hearing, and must
also give an undertaking to file using the Electronic Filing Service all
the documents used at the hearing by the next working day after the
hearing. Any document not filed using the Electronic Filing Service will
not be included in the Court’s case file.

Bundle of authorities

(3) <span id="Sub-para_3"></span>Bundles of authorities may be filed,
served, delivered or otherwise conveyed using the Electronic Filing
Service. A party may also choose not to file bundles of authorities and
may instead use these for hearings in paper form according to the
directions in this Part.

(4)<span id="Sub-para_4"></span> The party using the paper copy of the
bundle of authorities shall bear the onus of producing the bundle at
every hearing at which it is required. The paper copy of the bundle of
authorities may be printed on one side or both sides of each page. The
Court will neither retain nor undertake to produce for hearings the
paper copy of the bundle. The Judge or Registrar may, if he or she so
chooses, retain the paper copy of the bundle of authorities for his or
her own reference. The paper copy so retained will not, however, form
part of the Court’s record in respect of the proceedings in which it was
used.

(5) Counsel must adhere to the following directions when preparing
bundles of authorities for use in Court. These requirements shall also
apply to paragraphs 71 to 73 of these Practice Directions:

(a) The bundle of authorities shall have a table of contents immediately
after the first title page. Where the bundle of authorities consists of
more than one volume, each volume shall have a table of contents clearly
indicating the authorities that are contained in that volume.

(b) The items in the table of contents shall be numbered sequentially,
and bound in the order in which they are listed.

(c) The table of contents shall contain a concise statement of the
relevance of each authority to the specific issues before the Court. The
relevance of each authority shall be succinctly expressed and comprise
no more than 3 sentences. The statement shall be set out immediately
after the name of the case. For example:

Cartier International BV v Lee Hock Lee and another application

\[1992\] 3 SLR 340

Relevance: Where the Court is asked to punish an alleged contemnor by
incarceration, the charge against him must be proved to the high
standard required in a criminal charge.

Rickshaw Investments Ltd and another v Nicolai Baron von Uexkull
\[2007\] <span style="font-style: normal;">1 SLR(R) 377</span>

Relevance: Choice of law considerations are relevant even when
determining the natural forum to hear a dispute.

(6) The Court may reject bundles of authorities that are not in
compliance with sub-paragraph (5) above, and in exercising its
discretion as to costs, take such non-compliance into account.

<span style="text-align: right;">(</span>7) Where electronic bundles of
authorities are filed through the Electronic Filing Service, the
following shall apply:

(a) A bookmark should be created in the Portable Document Format (PDF)
file for each authority in the bundle.

(b) The name given to each bookmark should be the same as the table of
contents.

(c) The page number of each printed bundle must correspond to the page
number in the Portable Document Format (PDF) version of that bundle.
Each separate bundle of documents shall start at page 1 and every page
shall be numbered consecutively.

# 70. Bundle of documents filed on setting down

(1) Order 34, Rule 3 of the Rules of Court requires a bundle containing
certain documents to be filed together with the notice for setting down.
The documents in the bundle should be included in the order in which
these appear in Order 34, Rule 3(1):

Filing documents when setting down (O. 34, r. 3)

3\. —(1) The party setting down an action for trial must file with the
Registrar, a notice for setting down an action for trial in Form 61
together with a bundle for the use of the Judge consisting of one copy
of each of the following documents:

(a) the writ;

(b) the pleadings (including any affidavits ordered to stand as
pleadings), any notice or order for particulars and the particulars
given; and

(c) all orders made on the summons for directions.

(2) In addition, parties should endeavour to file a core bundle of
documents. This core bundle should comprise only documents that are
relevant to the hearing in question, or which will be referred to in the
course of the hearing.

(3) These documents must be prepared in an electronic format. If there
are other documents, the relevance of which is uncertain, these
documents should be included and any objections taken before the trial
Judge.

Directions for electronic creation and filing of bundles of documents

(4) The following directions shall apply to the filing of bundles:

(a) Index pages shall be prepared. Bookmarks should be created in the
Portable Document Format (PDF) file for each such reference in the
index. There should be as many book-marks in that PDF file as there are
references in the index to documents in that PDF file.

(b) The name given to each bookmark should be the same as the
corresponding reference in the index.

(c) The various PDF documents should be arranged chronologically or in
some logical order.

(d) The page number of each bundle of documents must correspond to the
page number in the Portable Document Format (PDF) version of that
bundle. Each separate bundle of documents shall start at page 1 and
every page shall be numbered consecutively.

(5) For proceedings using the Electronic Filing Service, a bundle of
documents may be created online and filed through the Electronic Filing
Service. The electronic bundle shall be created in Portable Document
Format (PDF). The electronic bundle may contain:

(a) documents in the electronic case file; and

(b) documents that have been uploaded into the electronic case file by
solicitors or other persons given access to the shared folder in the
electronic case file.

# 71. Documents for use in trials of writ actions in open Court

(1) This paragraph shall apply to trials in open Court of:

(a) writ actions; and

(b) originating summonses ordered to be continued as if the cause of
action had been begun by writ.

(2) Order 34, Rule 3A of the Rules of Court requires the originals of
the affidavits of the evidence-in-chief of all witnesses, a bundle of
documents and the opening statements to be filed not less than 5 working
days before the trial of an action. In addition, to improve the conduct
of civil proceedings and to reduce the time taken in the presentation of
cases in Court, the respective solicitors of the parties shall also
prepare a bundle of authorities, which shall also be filed and served
along with the documents on all relevant parties.

Only opening statement to be filed through the Electronic Filing Service

(3) <span id="Sub-para_3"></span>The opening statement must be filed in
Court as a <span style="font-style: italic;">*separate document*</span>
using the Electronic Filing Service. With the exception of opening
statements, the following documents need not be filed through the
Electronic Filing Service:

(a) The affidavits of the evidence-in-chief of all witnesses and the
bundle of documents may be tendered to the Legal Registry of the Supreme
Court in hard copy together with an electronic copy stored on a CD-ROM
in Portable Document Format (PDF) and complying with the provisions of
this paragraph.

(b) A party may choose not to include the bundles of authorities in the
CD-ROM and may instead tender it in hard copy.

(4) <span id="Sub-para_4"></span>Any Court fees payable, pursuant to
Appendix B of the Rules of Court, on filing the documents in this
sub-paragraph, shall be payable at the cashier at the Legal Registry.
Parties should, when making payment at the cashier, indicate to the
cashier the precise number of pages which comprise the documents.

(5)<span id="Sub-para_5"></span> Payment of the Court fees on such
documents should be made before the documents are filed in Court in
compliance with Order 34, Rule 3A. As such, the hard copy of documents
tendered to Court should show, on the front page, the amount of Court
fees paid on the document.

(6) <span id="Sub-para_6"></span>The electronic copy must tally in all
respects with the hard copy, as it will be uploaded into the case file
by the Legal Registry staff and will form part of the electronic case
file. The page numbers of the hard copy must correspond to the page
numbers in the Portable Document Format (PDF) version. Unnecessarily
large electronic files should not be submitted.  Parties should adhere
as far as possible to the guidelines set out on the Electronic Filing
Service website ([www.elitigation.sg)](http://www.efs.com.sg) on the
resolution to be used when scanning documents into PDF.

(7) <span id="Sub-para_7"></span>In the event that parties elect to
electronically file such documents, they must nevertheless tender a
bundle of these documents to the Legal Registry in hard copy. It shall
not be necessary to pay any additional Court fees in respect of the hard
copy in such circumstances.

Timeline for filing documents

(8) <span id="Sub-para_8"></span>Parties are to note that the timeline
in Order 34, Rule 3A (ie. not less than 5 days before the trial) is to
be adhered to strictly, and that it will in particular apply to the
electronic copy on CD-ROM and the filing of the opening statement as a
separate document.

(9) <span id="Sub-para_9"></span>At the trial of the cause or matter, an
adjournment may be ordered if:

(a) the documents or any of them (save for the opening statement in
cases where it is not required or dispensation was granted) were not
filed and served within the prescribed time or at all; or

(b) one party seeks to tender any of the above documents or supplements
thereto (except for supplements to the opening statement at the trial of
the cause or matter).

(10) <span id="Sub-para_10"></span>If an adjournment is ordered for any
of the reasons set out in sub-paragraph (9), the party in default may be
ordered to bear the costs of the adjournment.

Bundles of documents

(11) <span id="Sub-para_11"></span>The bundle of documents required to
be filed by Order 34, Rule 3A should be paginated consecutively
throughout at the top right hand corner and may be printed on one side
or both sides of each page.

(a) An index of contents of each bundle in the manner and form set out
in Form 10 of Appendix A of these Practice Directions must also be
furnished. No bundle of documents is necessary in cases where parties
are not relying on any document at the trial.

(b) Under Order 34, Rule 3A(3) it is the responsibility of solicitors
for all parties to agree and prepare an agreed bundle as soon as
possible. The scope to which the agreement extends must be stated in the
index sheet of the agreed bundle.

(c) The documents in the bundles should:

(i) be firmly secured together with plastic ring binding or plastic
spine thermal binding. The rings or spines should be red for plaintiffs
and blue for defendants with a transparent plastic cover in front and at
the back;

(ii) have flags to mark out documents to which repeated references will
be made in the course of hearing. Such flags shall bear the appropriate
indicium by which the document is indicated in the index of contents.
Flags shall be spaced out evenly along the right side of the bundle so
that, as far as possible, they do not overlap one another; and

(iii) be legible. Clear and legible photocopies of original documents
may be exhibited instead of the originals provided the originals are
made available for inspection by the other parties before the hearing
and by the Judge at the hearing.

(d) Where originals and copies of documents are included in one bundle,
it should be stated in the index which documents are originals and which
are copies.

(e) Only documents which are relevant or necessary for the trial shall
be included in the bundles. In cases where the Court is of the opinion
that costs have been wasted by the inclusion of unnecessary documents,
the Court will have no hesitation in making a special order for costs
against the relevant person.

(f) A core bundle should also be provided, unless one is clearly
unnecessary. The core bundle should contain the most important documents
upon which the case will turn or to which repeated reference will have
to be made. The documents in this bundle should not only be paginated
but should also be cross-referenced to copies of the documents included
in the main bundles. The bundle supplied to the Court should be
contained in a loose-leaf file which can easily have further documents
added to it if required.

Bundles of authorities

(12) <span id="Sub-para_12"></span>In addition to requirements set out
in paragraph 69(5) of these Practice Directions, the bundle of
authorities must:

(a) contain all the authorities, cases, statutes, subsidiary legislation
and any other materials relied on;

(b) be arranged in the following order – statutes in alphabetical order
of the title, subsidiary legislation in alphabetical order of the title,
cases in alphabetical order of the case name, secondary materials (such
as textbooks and articles) in alphabetical order of the last name of the
author, and any other materials in alphabetical order of the title or
last name of the author as is appropriate;

(c) be properly bound with plastic ring binding or plastic spine thermal
binding. The rings or spines should be red for plaintiffs and blue for
defendants with a transparent plastic cover in front and at the back;

(d) have flags to mark out the authorities. Such flags shall bear the
appropriate indicium by which the authority is referred to. Flags shall
be spaced out evenly along the right side of the bundle so that as far
as possible they do not overlap one another;

(e) be paginated consecutively at the top right hand corner of each
page. Pagination should commence on the first page of the first bundle
and run sequentially to the last page of the last bundle; and

(f) contain an index of the authorities in that bundle and be
appropriately flagged for easy reference; and

(g) be legible. Clear legible photocopies of original authorities may be
exhibited instead of the originals provided the originals are made
available for inspection by the other parties before the hearing and by
the Judge at the hearing.

(13) <span id="Sub-para_13"></span>Only authorities which are relevant
or necessary for the trial shall be included in the bundles. No bundle
of authorities is necessary in cases where parties are not relying on
any authority at the trial. In cases where the Court is of the opinion
that costs have been wasted by the inclusion of unnecessary authorities,
the Court will have no hesitation in making a special order for costs
against the relevant person.

Opening statements

(14) <span id="Sub-para_14"></span>A proper opening statement is of
great assistance to the Court as it sets out the case in a nutshell,
both as to facts and law. It is intended to identify both for the
parties and the Judge the issues that are, and are not, in dispute. It
enables the Judge to appreciate what the case is about, and what he is
to look out for when reading and listening to the evidence that will
follow. The need for brevity is emphasised as opening statements that
contain long and elaborate arguments, and citations from and references
to numerous authorities, do not serve this purpose.

(a) Opening statements will be required from all parties in all cases
commenced by writ in the High Court, except where dispensation has been
granted by the Court and in motor vehicle accident actions. Statements
submitted may be taken as read by the trial Judge.

(b) All opening statements must include the following:

(i) the nature of the case generally and the background facts insofar as
they are relevant to the matter before the Court and indicating which
facts, if any, are agreed;

(ii) the precise legal and factual issues involved are to be identified
with cross-references as appropriate to the pleadings. These issues
should be numbered and listed, and each point should be stated in no
more than one or two sentences. The object here is to identify the
issues in dispute and state each party’s position clearly, not to argue
or elaborate on them;

(iii) the principal authorities in support of each legal proposition
should be listed, while the key documents and witnesses supporting each
factual proposition should be identified;

(iv) where there is a counterclaim or third party action, the opening
statement must similarly address all issues raised therein; and

(v) an explanation of the reliefs claimed (if these are unusual or
complicated).

(c) In cases where the Court is of the opinion that costs or hearing
days have been wasted by a poorly drafted opening statement, the Court
will have no hesitation in making a special order for costs against the
relevant person.

(d) The following format shall be adhered to when preparing opening
statements:

(i) all pages shall be paginated, with the first page (including the
cover page) numbered as ‘Page 1’ so that the page numbers of the hard
copy correspond to the page numbers in the Portable Document Format
(PDF) version;

(ii) the minimum font size to be used is Times New Roman 12 or its
equivalent;

(iii) the print of every page shall be double spaced;

(iv) each page may be printed on one side or both sides; and

(v) every page shall have a margin on all 4 sides, each of at least 35
mm in width.

(e) All opening statements should not exceed 20 pages (including all
annexes and appendices, but excluding the cover page and backing page).

(f) Opening statements may be amended at trial, but counsel will be
expected to explain the reasons for the amendments.

# 72. Bundles of authorities for other open Court hearings

(1) In all criminal proceedings and civil and criminal appeals heard in
open Court in the High Court, counsel shall submit their own bundle of
authorities. In this regard, paragraph 71(12) to (13) shall,
<span style="font-style: italic;">*mutatis mutandis*</span>, be complied
with.

(2) In all criminal proceedings and civil and criminal appeals heard in
open Court in the Court of Appeal, as well as disciplinary proceedings
(or appeals therefrom) brought under any statute, including the Legal
Profession Act and the Medical Registration Act which are heard by a
Court of 3 Judges, counsel shall submit a soft copy of the bundle of
authorities in Adobe Portable Document Format (PDF) together with the
other documents required to be submitted under paragraph 88(3).

(3) With regard to soft copy bundles of authorities, the requirements
set out in paragraphs 69(5), 71(12)(a), 71(12)(b) and 71(13) shall be
complied with. The soft copy bundle of authorities shall contain
electronic bookmarks to each case therein, bearing the name of each of
the cases for easy electronic access. The page numbers of any hard copy
bundle of authorities must correspond to the page numbers in the
Portable Document Format (PDF) version.

# 73\. Hearings in Chambers

(1) <span id="Sub-para_1"></span>In all hearings in Chambers before a
Judge or Registrar, counsel shall submit their own bundles of documents
(where necessary) and bundles of authorities. Order 34, Rule 3A of the
Rules of Court and the requirements of paragraph 71(11) to (13) shall,
<span style="font-style: italic;">*mutatis mutandis*</span>, be complied
with in this regard, save that the bundles may be submitted at the
hearing itself before the Judge or Registrar, as the case may be.

(2) <span id="Sub-para_2"></span>The party using the paper copy of the
bundle of authorities should file through Electronic Filing Service a
list of authorities to be used at least one clear day in advance of the
hearing. In the event that it is not possible for the party to do so, he
must explain to the Judge or Registrar conducting the hearing why it was
not possible for him to do so and must also undertake to file the list
of authorities using Electronic Filing Service by the next working day
after the hearing.

# 73A. Written submissions and bundles of authorities for special date hearings

(1) For any contested special date hearing before a Judge in the High
Court, each party shall:

(a) submit to the Court and serve on the other party a hard copy of the
following documents at least 1 clear day in advance of the hearing

(i) written submissions; and

(ii) bundle of authorities (which are in compliance with the
requirements under paragraphs 69(5), 71(12) to (13) of these Practice
Directions); and

(b) file a soft copy of his written submissions using the Electronic
Filing Service no later than 1 working day after the hearing.

(2) If any party does not intend to rely on written submissions at the
contested hearing referred to in sub-paragraph (1) above (e.g., where
the hearing does not involve complex issues), the party should seek the
Court’s approval for a waiver by way of a Request using the Electronic
Filing Service at least 7 days before the hearing.

(3) This paragraph does not apply to any hearing before a Judge which is
fixed on the normal list. However, parties are encouraged to adhere to
the directions set out in sub-paragraph (1) above if the application
will be contested. In the event that this is not done, the Judge may
adjourn the hearing to enable the filing of written submissions or
bundle of authorities if appropriate.

(4) For any special date hearing before a Registrar, any party who
wishes to rely on written submissions at the hearing is required to
comply with sub-paragraph (1) above.

(5) This paragraph does not apply to any hearings for which specific
directions on the filing of written submissions or bundle of authorities
are provided for in these Practice Directions.

# 74. Citation of judgments

(1) The Honourable the Chief Justice has directed that counsel who wish
to cite a judgment as authority in support of their oral or written
submissions shall adhere to the following directions. These directions
are intended to provide guidance to advocates and solicitors as to (a)
the extent to which it is necessary to deploy both local and foreign
judgments in support of their case; and (b) the practice of citing such
judgments.

Use of judgments as authorities in submissions

(2) Counsel who cite a judgment must state the proposition of law that
the judgment establishes and the parts of the judgment that support that
proposition. Such statements should not excessively add to the length of
the submission but should be sufficient to demonstrate the relevance of
that judgment to the argument made. Where counsel wish to cite more than
two judgments as authority for a given proposition, there must be a
compelling reason to do so, and this reason must be provided by counsel
in the submissions.

(3) The Court will also pay particular attention to any indication in
the cited judgment that the judgment (i) only applied decided law to the
facts of the particular case; or (ii) did not extend or add to the
existing law.

Use of judgments from foreign jurisdictions

(4) Judgments from other jurisdictions can, if judiciously used, provide
valuable assistance to the Court. However, where there are in existence
local judgments which are directly relevant to the issue, such judgments
should be cited in precedence to foreign judgments. Relevant local
judgments will be accorded greater weight than judgments from foreign
jurisdictions. This will ensure that the Courts are not unnecessarily
burdened with judgments made in jurisdictions with differing legal,
social or economic contexts.

(5) In addition, counsel who cite a foreign judgment must:

(a) draw the attention of the Court to any local judgment that may be
relevant to whether the Court should accept the proposition that the
foreign judgment is said to establish; and

(b) ensure that such citation will be of assistance to the development
of local jurisprudence on the particular issue in question.

Citation practice

(6) Counsel who cite a judgment must use the official series of the law
report(s) or, if the official series is not available, any other law
report series in which the judgment was published. Counsel should
refrain from referring to (or including in the bundle of authorities)
copies of judgments which are printed out from electronic databases,
unless (a) such judgments are not available in any law report series; or
(b) the print-outs are the exact copies of the judgments in the law
report series.

The following are examples of law reports that should be used for
citation:

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><span style="font-family: Verdana, sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: bold;">Jurisdiction</span></p></td>
<td><p><span style="font-family: Verdana, sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: bold;">Law Reports (in order of preference)</span></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>(a) Singapore</p></td>
<td><p>1. Singapore Law Reports (2010 - ) (SLR current series)</p>
<p>2. Singapore Law Reports (Reissue) SLR (R))</p>
<p>3. Singapore Law Reports (1965-2009) (SLR 1965-2009)</p>
<p>4. Malayan Law Journal (MLJ)</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>(b) Malaysia</p></td>
<td><p>Malayan Law Journal (MLJ)</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>(c) England &amp; Wales</p></td>
<td><p>1. Law Reports published by the Incorporated Council of Law Reporting (e.g. Queen's Bench (QB), Appeal Cases (AC), Chancery (Ch), Family (Fam), Probate (P)</p>
<p>2. Weekly Law Reports (WLR)</p>
<p>3. All England Law Reports (All ER)</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>(d) Australia</p></td>
<td><p>1. Commonwealth Law Reports (CLR)</p>
<p>2. Australian Law Reports (ALR)</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>(e) Canada</p></td>
<td><p>1. Supreme Court Reports (SCR)</p>
<p>2. Federal Court Reports (FC)</p>
<p>3. Dominion Law Reports (DLR)</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>(f) New Zealand</p></td>
<td><p>New Zealand Law Reports (NZLR)</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

 

(7) Counsel should, where possible, make specific citations by referring
to the paragraph number of the judgment, and not to the page number of
the judgment or report. For consistency, square brackets (\[xx\]) should
be used to denote paragraph numbers. The paragraph mark (¶) should no
longer be used.

The neutral citation system for local judgments

(8) A neutral citation is a Court-approved system of citation which is
independent of the series of law reports or other publication, and
unique to each written judgment. Each written judgment from a particular
level of Court is assigned a sequential number, starting from 1 at the
beginning of each calendar year. The application of the system is as
follows:

(a) Cases reported in the Singapore Law Reports shall be cited using
their Singapore Law Reports citations, in priority to their neutral
citations.

(b) Unreported decisions shall be cited using their neutral citations.

COURT DESIGNATORS

SGCA – Singapore Court of Appeal

SGHC – Singapore High Court

SGHCR – Singapore High Court Registrar

EXAMPLE AND EXPLANATION

<span style="font-style: italic;">*ABC Co Pte Ltd v XYZ Co Ltd*</span>
\[2003\] SGCA 5, at \[3\], \[8\].

Year of the decision : \[2003\]

Level of Court         : SGCA (Singapore Court of Appeal)

Sequential Number   : 5 (fifth written judgment rendered by the Court of
Appeal in 2003)

Paragraph Number(s): Paragraphs 3 and 8 of the judgment

Ancillary provisions

(9) The Court in exercising its discretion as to costs may, where
appropriate in the circumstances, take into account the extent to which
counsel has complied with this practice direction in the citation of
judgments before the Court.

(10) It will remain the duty of counsel to draw the attention of the
Court to any judgment not cited by an opponent, which is adverse to the
case being advanced.

(11) In addition, counsel should also comply with paragraphs 71(12) and
71(13) when preparing bundles of authorities for use in trials of writ
actions in open Court.

(12) This paragraph applies to all hearings, whether in open Court or
chambers, in the Supreme Court.
