# PART XX: BANKRUPTCY AND WINDING UP MATTERS

143\. Bankruptcy applications

144\. Applications to set aside statutory demands made under the
Bankruptcy Rules

145\. Judicial Management and Winding Up applications under the
Companies Act

146\. Documents for use in open Court trials of contested winding-up
applications

• Bundles of documents

• Bundles of authorities

• Opening statements

• Timeline for tendering documents

# 143. Bankruptcy applications

The following arrangements will apply to hearings of bankruptcy matters:

(1) Bankruptcy matters are divided into 2 parts, namely,

(a) applications for bankruptcy orders; and

(b) other applications under the Bankruptcy Act (Cap. 20) or Bankruptcy
Rules (Cap. 20, R1), including:

(i) applications to set aside statutory demands;

(ii) applications to extend the time to set aside statutory demands; and

(iii) applications for interim orders under Part V of the Bankruptcy
Act.

(2) <span style="font-style: italic;">*Ex parte*</span> applications for
substituted service in bankruptcy proceedings will be dealt with by the
Duty Registrar.

# 144. Applications to set aside statutory demands made under the Bankruptcy Rules

(1) Rule 97 of the Bankruptcy Rules allows debtors to apply to set aside
statutory demands within 14 days from the date of service; or, where the
demand was served outside jurisdiction, within 21 days.

(2) Without prejudice to Rule 98 of the Bankruptcy Rules, on an
application to set aside a statutory demand based on a judgment or an
order, the Court will not go behind the judgment or order and inquire
into the validity of the debt.

(3) When the debtor:

(a) claims to have a counterclaim, set-off or cross demand (whether or
not he could have raised it in the action or proceedings in which the
judgment or order was obtained) which equals or exceeds the amount of
the debt or debts specified in the statutory demand; or

(b) disputes the debt (not being a debt subject to a judgment or order),

the Court will normally set aside the statutory demand if, in its
opinion, on the evidence there is a genuine triable issue.

# 145. Judicial Management and Winding Up applications under the Companies Act

After a winding up application has been filed, the applicant or his
solicitor should file the necessary documents using the checklist
provided in the Electronic Filing Service. Once the necessary documents
under the checklist have been filed, the applicant or his solicitor
should generate and file the winding up memorandum before attending
before the Duty Registrar in compliance with Rule 32 of the Companies
(Winding Up) Rules.  This requirement shall similarly apply to judicial
management applications under the Companies Act.

# 146. Documents for use in open Court trials of contested winding-up applications

(1) This paragraph shall apply to trials of contested winding-up
applications in open Court.

(2) To improve the conduct of contested winding-up applications and to
reduce the time taken in the presentation of cases in Court, the
following documents shall be prepared by the respective solicitors of
the parties:

(a) a bundle of documents (an agreed bundle where possible);

(b) a bundle of authorities; and

(c) an opening statement.

Bundles of documents

(3) For bundles of documents:

(a) Documents to be used at trial should be consolidated into bundles
paginated consecutively throughout at the top right hand corner. An
index of the contents of each bundle in the manner and form set out in
Form 12 of Appendix A of these Practice Directions must also be
furnished. No bundle of documents is necessary in cases where parties
are not relying on any document at the trial.

(b) It is the responsibility of solicitors for all parties to agree and
prepare an agreed bundle as soon as possible. The scope to which the
agreement extends must be stated in the index sheet of the agreed
bundle.

(c) In cases where certain documents cannot be agreed upon, these should
be separately bundled as the applicant’s or plaintiff’s bundle or such
other party’s bundle as the case may be.

(d) The requirements set out in paragraph 71(11)(c)-(f) shall,
<span style="font-style: italic;">*mutatis mutandis*</span>, be complied
with in respect of proceedings falling within this paragraph.

(e) The bundles of documents including the agreed bundle and core
bundle, if applicable, shall be filed and served on all relevant parties
at least 5 working days before trial.

Bundles of authorities

(4) The requirements set out in paragraph 71(12) to (13) shall,
<span style="font-style: italic;">*mutatis mutandis*</span>, be complied
with in respect of proceedings falling within this paragraph.

Opening statements

(5) The requirements set out in paragraph 71(14) shall,
<span style="font-style: italic;">*mutatis mutandis*</span>, be complied
with.

Timeline for tendering documents

(6) Paragraph 60(8) to (10) shall apply,
<span style="font-style: italic;">*mutatis mutandis*</span>, to
proceedings to which this paragraph applies.
